docs: authorizing kargo stages to modify argo apps (#2921)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/30-how-to-guides/25-argo-cd-integration.md

---
description: Learn how to integrate Kargo Stages with Argo CD Applications.
sidebar_label: Argo CD Integration
---

# Argo CD Integration

> Kargo integrates seamlessly with Argo CD to facilitate a more streamlined application lifecycle
> management process. While Argo CD helps with deploying Kubernetes objects and synchronizing changes
> in the cluster, Kargo focuses on orchestrating the promotion of these changes through various
> `Stage`s of development, such as from `development` to `testing` and then to `production`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Argo CD excels at syncing Kubernetes clusters to desired state stored in
a Git repository, but lacks any concept of a "promotion", i.e. updating
the desired state of some application instance to reflect the validated
state of some other application instance. Kargo was created to orchestrate
such processes. Because such orchestration naturally entails some direct
and indirect integration with Argo CD, this page details certain key
elements of the interactions between the two systems.
```

:::note

> This page is a work in progress.
> During this process, you may find limited details here. Please bear with us as we work to add more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page is a work in progress. Thank you for your patience as as we work to add more details.
```

:::

> ### Authorizing Kargo `Stage`s to Modify Argo CD Applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authorizing Kargo `Stage`s to Modify Argo CD Applications
```

> To enable Kargo `Stage`s to interact with and modify Argo CD applications, applications need
> to explicitly authorize Kargo to perform these actions. This is accomplished using the
> `kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage` annotation.
> 
> Kargo requires the annotation in the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Kargo controllers to update an Argo CD `Application` on behalf of
a given `Stage`, that `Application` must be explicitly annotated as follows:
```

```yaml
kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage: "<project-name>:<stage-name>"
```

> This annotation signifies consent for Kargo to manage the application on behalf of the designated `Project` and `Stage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because an annotation such as the one above could only be added to
an `Application` by a user who, themselves, is authorized to update
that `Application`, Kargo interprets the presence of such an annotation
as delegation of that user's authority to do so.
```

> In the following example, the `Application` manifest is configured to
> authorize the `test` `Stage` of the `kargo-demo` `Project` to manage
> the application by including the `kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage: kargo-demo:test`
> annotation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, an `Application` has been annotated to
authorize Kargo to update it on behalf of a `Stage` named `test`
in the `kargo-demo` `Project`:
```

```yaml
    apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Application
    metadata:
        name: kargo-demo-test
        namespace: argocd
        annotations:
            kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage: kargo-demo:test
    spec:
        # Application Specifications

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo-test
  namespace: argocd
  annotations:
    kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage: kargo-demo:test
spec:
  # Application Specifications
```
~~~

---

> description: Learn how to set up Argo CD to work with Kargo-managed projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to integrate Kargo Stages with Argo CD Applications.
```

sidebar_label: Argo CD Integration
---

# Argo CD Integration

> Kargo integrates seamlessly with Argo CD to facilitate a more streamlined application lifecycle management process. While Argo CD helps with deploying Kubernetes objects and synchronizing changes in the cluster, Kargo focuses on orchestrating the promotion of these changes through various `Stage`s of development, such as from `development` to `testing` and then to `production`.

Reviewer: It totally makes sense to say a bit here about Kargo's relationship to Argo CD.

I might reword this a bit for clarity. I'll come back to it.

:::note
This page is a work in progress.
During this process, you may find limited details here. Please bear with us as we work to add more information.
:::

### Authorizing Kargo `Stage`s to Modify Argo CD Applications

To enable Kargo `Stage`s to interact with and modify Argo CD applications, applications need to explicitly authorize Kargo to perform these actions. This is accomplished using the `kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage` annotation.

Kargo requires the annotation in the following format:

```yaml
kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage: "<project-name>:<stage-name>"
```

This annotation signifies consent for Kargo to manage the application on behalf of the designated `Project` and `Stage`.

> In the following example, the `ApplicationSet` manifest is configured to allow Kargo management by dynamically setting the `kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage: kargo-demo:{{stage}}` annotation for each `Stage` (`test`, `uat`, `prod`) to ensure that each `Stage` in the `kargo-demo` `Project` is authorized to modify its respective Argo CD Application:

Reviewer: It occurs to me now that this information probably needs to be surfaced here as this is where the information is most relevant. I failed to notice prior to my suggestion of making a whole separate page for Argo CD integration.

https://main.docs.kargo.io/references/promotion-steps#argocd-update

I wouldn't scrap this PR however. I think we should continue to expand on this topic because there's a lot to say about it.

If you open a separate PR for incorporating this information into the step documentation, that can easily be merged sooner than this new page.

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationSet
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  generators:
  - list:
      elements:
      - stage: test
      - stage: uat
      - stage: prod
  template:
    metadata:
      name: kargo-demo-{{stage}}
      annotations:
        kargo.akuity.io/authorized-stage: kargo-demo:{{stage}}
    spec:

>       # Application Specifications

Reviewer: As an `ApplicationSet`, the example asks the reader to understand more about Argo CD than is actually necessary for you to get your point across. The example would be more accessible as an `Application`.
